All right, so for
the exercise I've got VS code open here.
This is a fresh VS code install that only
has a theme and rust analyzer installed.
So everything that you're gonna see me do
when talk through these things is just
using the rusty analyzer plugin.
So, Russ analyzer is like
the rust like language or
one of the rust language server things.
There's also RMLS.
But rust analyzers a lot faster,
at least by reputation.
Okay, so
I have here I've opened part one in.
So when you download the repository,
you'll see a directory called part one.
As you can imagine,
there's also part two through seven, and
those would be the exercises for those.
Each of these exercises has the same
structure, so there's a source main.rs.
If you wanna know how to build it, there's
a read me that just kind of explains it.
But basically, all you've got to do
at the command line is run cargo run.
If you're in VS code,
there's actually a rust analyzer,
I can actually press run right here.
So basically all of these
exercises have the same form.
Which is we've got some rust code,
and there's some to do's in there.
Well, these little emojis so
you can see what's going on there.
So here we have three different to do's.
So basically we have our main function so
this is what's going to
kick off the program.
All it does is it prints out says hey, the
city of and then city name is Rossville.
And then we're calling this
print population function.
Passing some number of adults, some number
of kids and some number of buildings.
So adults is a use 64 kids is a u 32.
Buildings as a u 32.
Rust analyzer one of the things that
it does is like if I hover over these
types anywhere in here.
It'll tell me the types of adults use 64
because it knows that because of what
we've defined up here, but
that also works the type inference.
You can also see, for example,
that although I didn't put a type here for
a population,
it actually inferred when you can see in
gray there it says colon i32 in gray.
That's just roughly analyzer saying,
I know what type was inferred for
that thing.
So I'm just going to tell you, if you
want, I can also say insert explicit type
and then it'll just bop just put it in
there and make it be a the actual type.
So this is kind of a way that you can sort
of get the type inference benefit but
also still be able to see
the types if you want.
You can also I think there's a way to
turn that off if you don't wanna see so
many type annotations.
Okay, so
here's our first to do we wanna compute
the population by adding adults to kids.
Now because adults is use u 64 and
kids uses u 32.
We're going to need to use the as keyword
to get them both in the same type.
We're also gonna wanna compute buildings
per person by dividing buildings by
population.
So another tip here about how to use
as for that, and finally we're gonna do
a little bit string interpolation to
print buildings for person right here.
So when I run this,
we'll see that it's gonna build my code.
This takes a little bit, but
when I do subsequent builds,
it should be a little bit faster.
And here we see the output of this
program, the city of Rustville,
population,0, which is wrong,
adults, kids, buildings and then we
have the two that it's printing out.
Once we're done,
the population should not be zero.
And rather than this, it should print
out buildings per person there.
Okay and again, if you're not using
like a VS code, like with this plugin,
that's totally fine.
All you have to do is run cargo, run at
the command line in this directory and
this part one directory.
And it'll do exactly the same thing.